vimdir(1) -- edit directories in your editor
============================================

## SYNOPSIS

	vimdir [FLAGS] FILE...

## DESCRIPTION

The vimdir(1) utility allows editing of directories and filenames in a
text editor. If no *directory* is specified, the filenames of the
current directory are edited.

When editing a directory, each item in the directory will appear on
its own numbered line.  These numbers are how vidir keeps track of
what items are changed. Delete lines to remove files from the
directory, or edit filenames to rename files. You can also switch
pairs of numbers to swap filenames. To duplicate files, copy a given
line, keeping the number but changing the filename.

Filenames to be edited may be given any combination of *directories*
(which will be expanded to the non-recursive list of all files within
*directory*).

## FLAGS

* `-r`, `--recursive`:
	Delete directories recursively. If not specified, deleting
	directories will not be possible. Similar to the -r flag as used
	by rm(1).

* `-i`, `--ignore-hidden-files`:
	Ignore hidden files. With this flag set, filenames starting with
	a dot will not show up in your text editor.

* `-v`, `--verbose`:
	Verbosely display the actions taken by the program.


* `-h`, `--help`:
	Print a short help explaining the individual flags and arguments.


* `-V`, `--version`:
	Print version information.

## EXAMPLES

	vimdir
	vimdir *.jpeg
	vimdir --recursive ~/my/cool/docs
	vimdir --ignore-hidden-files ~

## ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

	EDITOR
		Editor to use.

       VISUAL
		Also supported to determine what editor to use.

## HISTORY

vimdir(1) is a clone of the vidir(1) utility offered by the moreutils
package. This manpage is based on the manpage of vidir(1), some parts
shamelessly copied.
